---
layout: post
title: First Day!
date: 2014-08-25 21:30
tags: [section01, section02]
---

My two classes ended up in roughly the same place, so I will write one post for
both. I think this will be an unusual occurrence --- but this is the first time
in ten years that I have two sections of one class at the same time, so what can
I really know? Anyway, from now on I expect to write separate posts for the two classes and keep
a little record of who did what.

We had a productive discussion of some different ways to describe a line in the
plane:

- parametrically (these are forms of _explicit_ description, i.e. described as a function)
    * as a pair or equations
      \\[ \\left\\{ \\begin{array}{lllll} x &=& x_0 &+& at \\\\ y &=& y_0 &+& bt \\end{array}\\right. \\]

    * in vector notation
      \\[ P = P_0 + t V \\]
- in standard form (This is an _implicit_ description.)
  \\[ Ax + By = C \\]

We had a chance to practice the general format of how class will run: students
present their work, class critiques, I direct traffic and gently guide discussion.
And we hit on some of our important themes: Using examples to explore and explain,
connecting algebra to geometry, giving complete and clear arguments.

I think section 01 got a bit further into a discussion of the geometry, and
section 02 had a bit deeper look into alternate examples. Both were good things
to do.

**For Wednesday**, please complete the assignment I passed out at the end of class.
And students in section 02: think about finding a way to graph a line given in
standard form with minimal work. This will be a useful skill going forward.

I am working on getting the class workbook up and running. I hope to have it going
by class on Wednesday.

##### #I'dCrossMyFingersButIHaveToTypeALot
