---
layout: post
title: Catching up
date: 2014-10-09 23:55
tags: section02
---

I have been underneath a pile of work, and so I have not posted here
as regularly as I wished. But right now I am catching up! (On this, at least.)

We have had three days of discussion about the material in chapter 3. The main
problem we are considering is how to solve a general system of linear equations
\\(Ax = b\\). Here the matrix \\(A\\) may not be square!

On Day 17, we had a long discussion about what makes a vector space, and in particular,
what makes a subspace. Basically, we want linear combinations to make sense. We had
these presenters:

  * \# 3.1 King, then Bray
  * \# 3.2 Bray
  * \# 3.3 Nogueira

On Day 18 we discussed the difference between subspaces which are defined implicitly
(by equations) and explicitly (using what we will eventually call a "basis"). The
presenters were:

  * \# 3.7 Bray
  * \# 3.8 Kalishek
  * \# 3.10 Kalishek
  * \# 3.11 Bray

On Day 19, our presenters were:

  * \# 3.13 Takahashi
  * \# 3.14 Kalishek
  * \# 3.15 Nogueira
  * \# 3.16 Nogueira
  * \# 3.17 Hitchman &amp; class
  * \# 3.18 Kalishek

At this point, there are two big things to note:

1. Class has shrunk, and those of you who attend regularly seem to fall into two groups:
those who come prepared and present, and those who may or may not come prepared but
definitely do not present. Please recognize that taking the opportunity to present
is about taking the opportunity to get feedback on your work. Watching you share your
ideas and explain them gives me a chance to help you. If you do not participate, I
cannot help you nearly as much.

2. We will have a catch-up day on Monday. At this point there are six items on our
"unpresented" list: 4, 5, 6, 9, 12, &amp; 17. We shall do whatever of those we can, but
we shall also save some time for a reassessment. I am making a plan to get this to work.
