---
layout: post
title: Worn Out
---

Everyone seemed pretty worn out. So, I made a choice and just took questions for
a bit. This section, on orthogonal projection onto a subspace, is one students
tend to have trouble with the first time through. It just takes a little while
for the idea to sink in, it seems. Also, our next meeting is a scheduled "catch up"
day. This made it easy to choose a slow day.

I took questions for about 30 minutes, and gave you the rest of the meeting to
discuss. The questions I was asked took us in the direction of these idea that
we have **two** good ways to describe subspaces:

  * If we have a basis, we are describing a subspace "parametrically" or
  "explicitly." Here, you can think of the subspace as a graph of a kind of
  function. If \\(v_1, \ldots, v_k\\) is a basis, then the subspace is the
  graph of the function \\(a_1, \ldots, a_k \mapsto a_1v_1 + \dots a_kv_k \\_).
  This can be done compactly by thinking of the subspace as the column space of
  the matrix \\(V\\) which has columns equal to the \\(v_i\\)'s.

  * If we have a set of equations, we are describing a subspace "implicitly."
  Here, we are thinking of the subspace as the set of intersection points of
  a bunch of hyperplanes. In this case, we can work compactly by thinking of
  the subspace as the null space of a matrix whose rows are the coefficients of
  the various equations.

More importantly, we have learned to pass back and forth between these two types
of representations. Finding a basis given the equations is _exactly_ the process
of solving an equation \\(Ax=0\\) and writing the equation by finding special
solutions.

Finding the equations given a basis was a task we ran across while looking at
the conditions required to make a set of equations solvable.

#### For Wednesday

Okay. I am putting this up late. You already know what to do. We will talk through
the tasks from 4.1 and 4.2.

Also, one of you pointed out that the online workbook had a section in the wrong
place. I managed to find the error that did that and fix it. Unfortunately, I also
broke the equation numbering in the notebook. So, rather than tasks being numbered
within each chapter, they are numbered in one giant sequence. So rather than tasks
6 through 11, tomorrow we will discuss things numbered in the 130's. I will try to
fix this later. Right now, I need to mark papers.
