---
layout: post
title: Chapter One Catch Up

---

We had much longer conversations today, but they were about crucial things. I am
very glad to give time for you all to discuss these things at the expense of
"more presentations."

First Mr Tong presented on Task 5, which led to a very good conversation and
the eventual production of a **column picture**. This is what happens when you
consider an equation involving a linear combination of column vectors trying
to produce another column vector. We also saw the beginnings of the concepts of
_span_, _linear independence_, and _linear dependence_. More on those later!

Then Miss Feldmann presented on Task 8. This went pretty quickly.

Then Mr Conger presented on Task 12. Again, we got a good column picture on
the board. Then I took the opportunity to also draw the **row picture**. This is
what you get when you think of each linear equation in a system as defining a
plane and look for intersections.

Every problem we consider will have an associated column picture and an associated
row picture. I want to be sure we eventually learn to use them both, so that you
can pick whichever one makes your particular problem easiest to solve.

#### A note on next week:

I will miss our meetings next week, but I have arranged with Dr Somodi to substitute
for me. Dr Somodi is awesome, so this will go great.

### Assignment for Wednesday, 9 September:

Study up for our first assessment day. Dr Somodi will manage assessments for our
first two topics: _Vectors_ and _the dot product_. Details are available [here][].

[here]: http://theronhitchman.github.io/linear-algebra/standards-based-assessment/content-standards.html

### Assignment for Friday, 11 September:

Read section 2.1 of Strang, the [associated section of the workbook][workbook], and do the
accompanying tasks to prepare for class. The main content in this section is about
_three_ pictures for each linear algebra situation: the column picture, the row picture,
and the _transformational picture_.

[workbook]: http://theronhitchman.github.io/linear-algebra/course-materials/workbook/three-pictures.html
