---
layout: post
title: Vectors and vector equations

---

We finally had a taste of how we will run most class days. Thanks again for playing along with me. So, what happened today?

  - We split into groups and discussed the work for today
  - each group focused on preparing two items from the homework to present
    _with an explanation_.
  - We had **six** presentations. (I am really pleased we got through so many on our first day.) Keep working hard and we will learn a ton.
  - you got to practice asking questions. I really expect you will. If you
    don't, I might call on you to do it.

Here is what got presented: Task 1, Mr Adams; Task 2, Mr Bundt; Task 3, Mr Knief; Task 4, Ms Divis; Task 11, Mr Walls; Task 6, Mr Gravaert.

Of those, I would say Task 11 has the most intrigue. The statement is a bit on the complicated side, and you have to be careful about what you are doing. Be sure to look it over again.

We will spend some time on our "Ch 1" day to catch up with the other tasks.

#### A Challenge:

Most of the explanations we saw today were heavily algebraic. This is fine. Algebra is an incredibly wonderful tool. But I want you to learn to think geometrically, too. (Eventually, we want to be able to do both.) Can you redo some of the exercises for today but use geometric language in your explanations?

#### Announcement:

A pair of headphones was left in the classroom. Perhaps someone from group 2 left them? Or someone else? If you are missing a set, go by the math department office to claim them.

#### For Friday:

We will postpone the workbook sections called "the dot product," and
"matrices." Instead, for Friday you should look at the section titled
"Getting Started with Sage." We will meet in the computer lab in WRT 110 on
Friday.