---
layout: post
title: Vector Spaces&colon; How to Read the Text
---

Since it seems many of you are struggling to read the textbook and gain
understanding from it, I decided to run class differently.

Rather than the usual routine, I shared some tips for reading a math text:

1. You probably have to read any bit of mathematics more than once.
    + At least once for "big picture understanding"
    + and again for nuances and subtleties.
    + and maybe more times, still.
2. Mathematics reading is not passive, like reading a novel, but _active_.
   + One has to read with a pen and paper. With these in hand, you take notes on
     what goes on. Most importantly, **write down your questions as you go**.
     You probably won't be able to figure them all out by the time you are done
     reading. But it helps to have them in front of you when you read another time.
     You can focus your reading on trying to understand those questions.
   + As you go, make your own examples and work them out. Humans learn most easily
     from examples. This is why so many of the questions I have for you take the form
     "find an example of X, or tell my why that is impossible." The same goes for
     reading. Make and work more examples as you go.

Then I modeled that process with section 3.1 of Strang's book.

I hope you find this helpful. I don't think this is the _only_ way to do it, but
it certainly is _a_ way to do it. In case you didn't have any method before, now
you have one to try.

#### For Friday, 9 October

Prepare section 3.2, following the [directions here][3-2].

[3-2]: http://theronhitchman.github.io/linear-algebra/course-materials/workbook/nullspace.html
