---
layout: post
title: Lab Day
date: 2016-08-26 23:15
---

Lab Day. We played with SageMath using SageMathCloud. It can take a little while
to get comfortable, and I hope that by now you have spent about two hours fussing
over some of the basics about how to use Sage to do basic plotting and computation.

As the semester progresses, you will find it increasingly useful to have a computer
available during your work. Some pictures are hard to draw, and the computer can
make reasonable visualizations faster and cleaner, even when you account for
all of the frustrations of matching parenthesis and getting commas in the proper
locations. And Linear Algebra is **full** of long, tedious arithmetical computations
where humans just make silly mistakes even though they only just spent hours subtracting
numbers. SageMath can help with both of these things.

I asked you to make plots of different types and I asked you to interact with things
which were vectors and matrices. And those will all be important. But if you look
closely, you can see that I wanted you to (1) get stuck, (2) get hit with common
error messages, and (3) find the documentation in a variety of ways. I hope
that knowing how to do (3) can help you get through any future instances of (1) and
(2).

### For Monday

Please prepare the material as outlined in our workbook here:

[The Dot Product](http://theronhitchman.github.io/linear-algebra/course-materials/workbook/dot-product.html)

This section is about a mysterious object that connects the algebra of linear
equations to _geometry_ of lengths and angles. Learning the very basics can be done
quickly, but understanding how and why it works will take a while to sink in.

The readings are ready, but the exercises I will adjust in the early afternoon tomorrow.
