---
layout: post
title: Our First Meeting
date: 2016-08-22 15:00
---

Success! I mean that TWO ways:

1. We had a good first day, and we got to preview some important ideas.
2. I found my notebook! That is, one of my other students reminded me that
I took it to the back of the classroom in my 1pm class. HaHA! Crisis Averted.

I had one spectacular failure today. I mispronounced Mr Covid's name over and over
again. I should have said "Covid," but instead I kept saying "Corvid." What's weird
is that _corvid_ is a name for a family of related bird species including crows,
ravens, and jays. They are known to be intelligent birds who can solve problems.
Maybe Mr <strike>Corvid</strike>Covid can forgive me. (embarrassed smiley face here)

Since there were more of you than I expected, I ran out of syllabi. If you did
not get a paper copy today, please fetch it from the link in the navigation bar
at the top of this web page.

## For Wednesday

Please do the assignment as listed in the workbook section 1.1. This has several
parts, including

  * reading from Strang,
  * reading from the workbook itself,
  * watching a youTube video, and
  * trying out some tasks.

You can already start reading while I get to work on editing the problems. None
of the text will change, just the selection of exercises. I'll share a bit more
about how to complete this later tonight. In particular, I will give you some
ideas about how to read effectively. I am off to write that down in a minute,
I only just thought to do it.

## Advance Warning:

On Friday, we will hold class in WRT 110, a computer lab across the hall from our
regular room. More details on Wednesday.
