---
layout: post
title: Matices, First Run
---

Today was our first day to talk about matrices. We will probably talk about them
in some way in every remaining class meeting.

For now, a matrix is either

 1. a structure to give us a compact way to represent a system of linear equations, or
 2. a way to stack a bunch of vectors together (either rows or columns) so we can
 consider them as a collective.

Since you have started watching the videos in _Essence of Linear Algebra_ by _3Blue1Brown_,
you have already heard that a matrix is also a thing on its own, and that thing is
a kind of function. But we are not quite there, yet.

Today, we talked about a bunch of questions that are stated in terms of (1) and (2)
above. Along the way, we used the column picture a few times, we used the row picture
a few times, we talked about fancy words like _span_, _basis_, _linear dependence_,
and _dimension_. All of those words will make more appearances as the semester moves on.

Today's presentations were: \#13 Dunn; \#14 Fuhs; \#15 Lillie; \#17 Herng; \#18 Meyer.
We didn't discuss 16, 19 or 20.

### For Friday

It is time to do some review. Take a quick look at this section of the [workbook][], as
it will give you an idea of how I expect you do to "review."

[workbook]: http://theronhitchman.github.io/linear-algebra/course-materials/workbook/basic-objects-going-further.html

We won't take time to do small group discussion on Friday. We will move right to
presentations, and I will just take volunteers, with preference for new presenters!
Our list of open tasks is: \#3,6,16,19,20.

Also, collect any questions you have and we can talk through those a bit, too.

### By the way

Mr Nichols tells me he found this [video about plotting in SageMathCloud][video] to be helpful.
Maybe you will, too?

[video]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pKkUZ8yiXjU&app=desktop
