---
layout: post
title: Vectors Day
---

Excellent work everyone. Thank you all for working hard and going along with the
slightly different structure for class. I hope you found the conversations today
enlightening. And I hope you are getting the message that "Trying and then Talking
and Questioning" is the key to class, because it is the key to learning. Put in a
good effort, and be willing to talk through your ideas and confusion. Eventually,
things will be more clear.

Your reading was about _vectors_. Then asked you to delve a little deeper into
some odd questions about solving equations using vectors. At this stage in your
mathematical development (I mean "based on what I know of students who were in
previous linear algebra classes and assuming you are typical", not what "I know",
because we just met and maybe it doesn't quite apply to you, but now I am rambling
and this parenthetical remark has become a disastrous run-on and I feel like I am
writing a Sarah Vowell note, and by the way, if you have never heard of Sarah Vowell
or her writing give it a shot some time because she is funny), we are not quite
ready to give full-on rigorous arguments. (Oh, man. Proofs of linear algebra theorems
tend to be suuuuuper boring, so I am glad we don't have to do them.)
But we have to start approximating them
by at least giving arguments of some sort, and I think the way to go is by _reasoning
carefully from examples_. So, I will often ask you to try to make examples, or
at least explain why you can not.

ANYWAY. We talked about 4 out of 6 tasks. We will return to the other two on the
first available "Ch1" day on the syllabus.

Mr Tarnow presented on \#1, Mr De La Bruere on \#2, we skipped \#3 because it is
tricky, and we had a good discussion of \#4 led by Mr Morgan and \#5 led by Mr Reihman.
We didn't even get to \#6.

I left you all with a bit of a challenge:

    Try to use one of our geometric pictures (the row picture or the column picture)
    to explain how things in tasks 4 and 5 work.

### For Friday

Friday will be our official Lab Day. I have sent each of you an invitation email
through SageMathCloud. It should be in your UNI email inbox. If not, please check your
spam folder.

If for some reason you still did not receive an invitation, make an account at
[cloud.sagemath.com][] using your UNI email address and real name. That should
link up to the project I made for you.

One way or another, there is an assignment waiting for you in a project called
"Fall 2016 Linear Algebra" or something like it. Work through that worksheet before
class on Friday. I will have _different_ SageMath stuff to do on Friday.

Also, please read through the syllabus and take note of any questions you have.
We will take a little time to discuss things on Friday.

This is all detailed in the workbook here: [http://theronhitchman.github.io/linear-algebra/course-materials/workbook/start-sage.html][]
