---
title: Go!
date: 2017-01-09 15:45
layout: post
---

Good Job! Today we had our first run at solving typical linear-algebra style
problems. We also had a few presentations, as Mr Warner, Mr Maynard, and
Mr Bundt each took turns sharing their ideas.

We saw lots of core ideas show up already, and I am pretty excited about it.

  * Mr Warner used "elimination and back-solving" to find a solution to our
  first example
  * Mr Maynard did the same task, but used a substitution method.
  * We discussed the row picture, and how that can help us easily see that
  our example system could have only one solution.
  * We discussed how to quickly graph lines given in "standard form" by using
  intercepts.
  * We searched for a system which didn't have a solution, and found one!
  * We drew the column picture.
  * We connected the column picture to a version of the system that
  used a "linear equation of vectors" style equation.

Linear algebra is all about systems of equations, vectors, and matrices, and
the long list of ways we can understand these things.

Most days will involve discussion of similar kinds of tasks, and all of the
tasks are contained in our workbook. This is a kind of supplement to to the
traditional text that I am writing myself, and you can find it here.

[The Workbook](http://theronhitchman.github.io/linear-algebra/course-materials/workbook/LinAlgWorkbook.html)

There are many features of class we haven't discussed, yet. But it will all
come up in good time. For now, let's get on with some mathematics.

### For Wednesday

Your assignment is contained at the top of section 1.1 of the workbook,
which is here:

[Vectors](http://theronhitchman.github.io/linear-algebra/course-materials/workbook/vectors.html)

This involves reading, watching some video, and working some problems. Do your
best with the tasks and bring your notes to class on Wednesday. We will discuss
them in small groups and then as a class.
